Welcome
=
Welcome to the PRINCESS project on GitHub! We will use this site to collaborate and make progress on PRINCESS tasks and objectives.

PRINCESS Abstract
=
Many Department of Defense software systems run on long-lifespan platforms that operate in diverse and dynamic environments. As a result, countless person-hours are spent manually adapting this software to operate effectively when hardware, resources, and external devices change. If this software could automatically adapt to a changing ecosystem (or increase its capabilities in a new ecosystem), it would significantly reduce the time and effort required for maintenance. This automatic adaptation promotes the long-term use of quality software on platforms that are under continuous change, while simultaneously enabling more rapid upgrade and maintenance of these critical systems. Creating adaptive software is challenging because there are a large number and wide variety of informal dependencies and assumptions between software and its ecosystem. When the ecosystem changes, these dependences and assumptions must all be addressed, or the software will not work properly because it cannot adapt to new external devices, libraries, resources, or even computing architectures.

To address these challenges, Charles River Analytics proposes a TA1\-3 effort to develop Probabilistic Representation of Intent Commitments to Ensure Software Survival (PRINCESS). The proposed PRINCESS methods, algorithms, and techniques for software survival are grounded in an operationally relevant environment and platform-unmanned underwater vehicles (UUVs). UUVs are vital operational platforms for the US Navy, and they must quickly and easily adapt to new missions, computational capabilities (including degradation), hardware (e.g., sensors), operating environments, and missions.

PRINCESS takes a unique and novel technical approach to addressing the challenge of building adaptable software systems. The key insight in the proposed PRINCESS approach is that new advances in machine learning and probabilistic modeling can be tightly integrated with novel techniques in the program analysis, operating systems, and information integration fields to create complex software systems that understand, learn, and adapt in response to hardware, software, and mission changes. PRINCESS will implement this insight by: (1) developing new ways to define software intent; (2) using probabilistic modeling to guide the transformation of software so it can adapt to ecosystem changes; (3) verifying the soundness of transformations using new formal verification methods; (4) intelligently monitoring the ecosystem for changes; and (5) adapting existing software to new physical devices (e.g., sensors) and computational platforms (e.g., new CPUs).

Charles River Analytics has assembled a world-class team to achieve the goals of the PRINCESS program. In addition to the probabilistic modeling, machine learning, software engineering, and UUV expertise of Charles River personnel, our team includes well-known experts in program analysis, formal verification, operating systems, and information integration at Harvard University, the University of Birmingham, and the University of Southern California. Charles River has significant experience managing large DARPA programs, and the experience and expertise of our team will ensure that the technology developed under PRINCESS can be used to build robust and adaptable operational systems.
